7/7
HRNet works, is fully functional and is actually training, however results leave lots to be desired.
So far:
Training on synthset_v1 - performs decently on validation after just a few (5) epochs, but does horribly when predicting real dataset
Training on synthset_v2 - 5 epochs did not yield best results, trying for more but possible that it may be too sparsely populated with buildings

7/10:
results still not good for predicting real dataset, current path:
(I have updated dataset without bg and blurred training in the meantime)
Try training on Toronto synthset and compare to Toronto gt
Try changing textures, in particular the lot inner stretched green texture

7/14:
Dr. Hur feedback on report:
Not organized, make section titles better and add subheadings
- adding info is much easier when you have a format down
articulate/structure presentation of results better

Talk about w Shuang:
next locations
include cbus results in report?

TODO:
revise abstract based on feedback


7/15:
getting London synthset and training underway, try to do at least 1 synthset per day until the end of the week

main hurdle now is figuring out how I can get the results I want, + revising report and putting poster together
still need to interpret results which is the big thing

Note: You actually can't import map data from OSM with more than a maximum tile size, possible limitation


7/16:
accidentally fucked up and made the planetscope dataset a different size, performance was higher, may be due to increased size of dataset or other factors, but would be interesting if it was due to image size

New update: MUST CONTROL FOR SIZE OF DATASET, must be pretty comparable (i.e., not more than ~1.25x, Shuang says 1.1x is fine)
While I've realized this, let me list all the controlling factors I can think of:
Image size
Image GSD
# of images
Taken from contiguous or distinct sites
Taken at a similar time (recent data)

Variable = Image content (colors, textures, etc.)

we want: contiguous, 256x256, 3m/px, still have to decide the size, most recent planetscope images (CityEngine satellite view is updated regularly), 


General engineering advice: ALWAYS DOUBLE CHECK EACH STEP AFTER YOU DO IT, JUST IN CASE
FINALIZE YOUR PARAMETERS AND THEN DON'T TOUCH THEM??? this one is hard tho cause how are you gonna make iterative improvements, ig you separate the ones that matter from the ones that don't and can be set in stone

Do everything like you have to make a final report on it, because you will, eventually.

7/17:
Update on specs: size will be one PlanetScope quad, which renders into ~350 images, of which 250 will be sampled by the DataLoader. 
For consistency, render settings in Blender should be kept the same as well. Now that I have a good computer to render on, sky tex produces the best shadows for downtown areas with skyscrapers like Toronto, so I'll render the other synthsets with this as well. (if it doesn't take years that is)
Maybe - test everything, so sky tex render vs. normal -- now that I have the good computer I might as well


7/18:
Ok calm down and collect thoughts lmao
After talk w Shuang:
TODO: test synthsets on different domains
It's acceptable that real performs much higher, just make sure synthset performs better on its own domain
To make the absolute most fair test:
use data augmentation to upsample PlanetScope dataset, do not downsample synthset as it will hurt performance? (although not really seen on tests so far)
Still: gen 1-2 more synthsets to have comprehensive results
also use a consistent render engine, perhaps redoing the London training on cycles to keep it consistent

if have time (which prob won't): Test mixing the synthetic data in with real



7/20:
models trained so far w data augmentation for real and no sub sampling for synthetic:
Washington synthset
Toronto real
London real

In training:
Washington real

todo: 
retrain Toronto synthset
re-export London synthset w cycles and retrain

7/21:
Remember: Washington and Toronto synthset were NOT FULLY TRAINED, still need to train them to 100% to get fully accurate results
TODO: talk w/ Shuang about these things:
data augmentation on real data makes model perform way worse on evaluation, unless you want to evaluate the synthetic images on the augmented data? but I find that hard to believe. So, what should be done about this? I propose keeping the real non-data-augmented simply because it has a better score, it's what the synthset models are being evaluated on, and I don't have time to mess around to find good augmentations.
Should I retrain the models with an equal weight assigned to buildings and non-buildings? Maybe just to see, since the imbalance was for Columbus where the disparity was great

7/23:
Talk w/ Shuang:
Is there a way to maintain access to the OSC after the program?
Training with balanced weights showed promising results

7/25:
TODO: Complete testing mixed synthset vs. not on equal weights

